---
layout: post
title: 'twint 安装及使用'
date: 2019-10-19 13:35:00 +0800
category: from_cnblogs
slug: p20191019133500
---
分享这个post是自己方便查，还有中文网界对这个东西介绍太少。
更多的就看github项目twint吧。

### Installation:

git+pip3:

```
git clone https://github.com/twintproject/twint.git
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
pip3 install twint
```

or pip3+pipenv:

```
pip3 install --user --upgrade -e git+https://github.com/twintproject/twint.git@origin/master#egg=twint
pipenv install -e git+https://github.com/twintproject/twint.git#egg=twint
```

You may meet module cannot found error when you try to run twint after installation. On ubuntu, add ~/.local/bin into your PATH by:

```
export PATH=$PATH:~/.local/bin

```

You may edit `~/.bashrc` file to permanately add the '~/.local/bin' into your PATH.

### Usage:

Running the `twint` cmd with arguments can give you results. A few simple examples to help you understand the basics:

- `twint -u username` - Scrape all the Tweets from *user*'s timeline.
- `twint -u username -s pineapple` - Scrape all Tweets from the *user*'s timeline containing *pineapple*.
- `twint -s pineapple` - Collect every Tweet containing *pineapple* from everyone's Tweets.
- `twint -u username --year 2014` - Collect Tweets that were tweeted **before** 2014.
- `twint -u username --since "2015-12-20 20:30:15"` - Collect Tweets that were tweeted since 2015-12-20 20:30:15.
- `twint -u username --since 2015-12-20` - Collect Tweets that were tweeted since 2015-12-20 00:00:00.
- `twint -u username -o file.txt` - Scrape Tweets and save to file.txt.
- `twint -u username -o file.csv --csv` - Scrape Tweets and save as a csv file.
- `twint -u username --email --phone` - Show Tweets that might have phone numbers or email addresses.
- `twint -s "Donald Trump" --verified` - Display Tweets by verified users that Tweeted about Donald Trump.
- `twint -g="48.880048,2.385939,1km" -o file.csv --csv` - Scrape Tweets from a radius of 1km around a place in Paris and export them to a csv file.
- `twint -u username -es localhost:9200` - Output Tweets to Elastic search
- `twint -u username -o file.json --json` - Scrape Tweets and save as a json file.
- `twint -u username --database tweets.db` - Save Tweets to a SQLite database.
- `twint -u username --followers` - Scrape a Twitter user's followers.
- `twint -u username --following` - Scrape who a Twitter user follows.
- `twint -u username --favorites` - Collect all the Tweets a user has favorited (gathers ~3200 tweet).
- `twint -u username --following --user-full` - Collect full user information a person follows
- `twint -u username --profile-full` - Use a slow, but effective method to gather Tweets from a user's profile (Gathers ~3200 Tweets, Including Retweets).
- `twint -u username --retweets` - Use a quick method to gather the last 900 Tweets (that includes retweets) from a user's profile.
- `twint -u username --resume resume_file.txt` - Resume a search starting from the last saved scroll-id.

More detail about the commands and options are located in the [wiki](https://github.com/twintproject/twint/wiki/Commands)