---
layout: post
title: '实时监控linux主机网络活动，上传下载速度'
date: 2020-05-18 04:31:00 +0800
category: from_cnblogs
slug: p20200518043100
---
# 实时监控linux主机网络活动，上传下载速度
# 16 Useful Bandwidth Monitoring Tools to Analyze Network Usage in Linux
by Aaron Kili | Published: September 20, 2018 | Last Updated: February 13, 2020
ref: https://www.tecmint.com/linux-network-bandwidth-monitoring-tools/

 
Linux Certifications - RHCSA / RHCE Certification | Ansible Automation Certification | LFCS / LFCE Certification
Are you having problems monitoring your Linux network bandwidth usage? Do you need help? It’s important that you are able to visualize what is happening in your network in order to understand and resolve whatever is causing network slowness or simply to keep an eye on your network.

Read Also: 20 Commad Line Tools to Monitor Linux Performance

In this article, we will review 16 useful bandwidth monitoring tools to analyze network usage on a Linux system.

If you are looking to manage, troubleshoot or debug your Network, then read our article – A Linux Sysadmin’s Guide to Network Management, Troubleshooting and Debugging


 
The tools listed below are all open source and can help you to answer questions such as “why is the network so slow today?”. This article includes a mix of small tools for monitoring bandwidth on a single Linux machine and complete monitoring solutions capable of handling a few number of hosts on a LAN (Local Area Network) to multiple host even on a WAN (Wide Area Network).

ManageEngine Netflow Analyzer
ManageEngine NetFlow Analyzer is a flow-based bandwidth monitoring solution that offers multi-vendor support. It monitors your network, analyzes traffic patterns, and detects and diagnoses bandwidth hogs.

You can track the traffic patterns in your network over any period of time, and drill down further into the device, interface, application, and user-level details. With its traffic shaping abilities, NetFlow Analyzer helps you identify network anomalies in real-time and troubleshoot them before they affect your end-users.

With its customizable reports, NetFlow Analyzer also helps you predict and plan your bandwidth requirements. You can create, schedule, and generate comprehensive bandwidth analysis reports in just a few clicks.

ManageEngine Netflow Analyzer
ManageEngine Netflow Analyzer

### 1. vnStat – A Network Traffic Monitor
VnStat is a fully-featured, command line-based program to monitor Linux network traffic and bandwidth utilization in real-time, on Linux and BSD systems.

Vnstat Network Traffic Monitor Tool
Vnstat Network Traffic Monitor Tool

One advantage it has over similar tool is that it logs network traffic and bandwidth usage statistics for later analysis – this is its default behavior. You can actually view these logs even after system reboots.

Install VnStat in Linux
```
# yum install epel-release  [On RHEL/CentOS]
# yum install vnstat

# apt install vnstat   [On Debian/Ubuntu]
```

### 2. iftop – Displays Bandwidth Usage
iftop is a simple, easy to use, real time top-like command line based network bandwidth monitoring tool, used to get a quick overview of network activities on an interface. It displays network usage bandwidth updates every 2, 10 and 40 seconds on average.

Iftop Display Bandwidth Usage
Iftop Display Bandwidth Usage

Install iftop in Linux
```bash
# yum install epel-release  [On RHEL/CentOS]
# yum install iftop

# apt install iftop   [On Debian/Ubuntu]
```

### 3. nload – Displays Network Usage
nload is a another simple, easy to use command-line tool for monitoring network traffic and bandwidth usage in real time. It uses graphs to help you monitor inbound and outbound traffic. In addition, it also displays information such as the total amount of transfered data and min/max network usage.

nload - Monitor Network Usage
nload – Monitor Network Usage

Install nload in Linux
```
# yum install epel-release  [On RHEL/CentOS]
# yum install nload

# apt install nload   [On Debian/Ubuntu]
```

### 4. NetHogs – Monitor Network Traffic Bandwidth
NetHogs is a tiny top-like, text-based tool to monitor real time network traffic bandwidth usage by each process or application running on a Linux system. It simply offers real time statistics of your network bandwidth usage on a per-process basis.

NetHogs - Monitor Network Usage Per User
NetHogs – Monitor Network Usage Per User

Install NetHogs in Linux
```
# yum install epel-release  [On RHEL/CentOS]
# yum install nethogs

# apt install nethogs       [On Debian/Ubuntu]
```

More: https://www.tecmint.com/linux-network-bandwidth-monitoring-tools/