---
layout: post
title:  "Linux调整磁盘分区大小"
date: 2016-09-07 16:40:06 +0800
tags: 
slug: p20160907164006
---

# Linux调整磁盘分区大小





### Resize the disk （[Linux](https://so.csdn.net/so/search?q=Linux&spm=1001.2101.3001.7020)调整磁盘分区大小）


Resize the partition. Run parted: `$ parted`


Show the partition list: `(parted) print`


There should be two partitions; 1 should be a boot partition, about 64MB; the second should be the main partition, about 3.6G


Some Disk Commands of Linux, that you should know：



* sudo df -h          Display the FileSystem that you mounted
* sudo fdisk -l    Show your disk information that is unmounted or un-parted


  


Sonictl: Here I didn't see two partitions by print command. but fdisk -l showed me that.


Resize the second partition to use the whole disk: `(parted) resizepart 2 32GB`


`Sonictl: Here you may meet error: "Unrecognized disk label", useselect command to chang the device from "/dev/mmcblk1boot0" to "/dev/mmcble0", then try again.` 


Close parted: `(parted) quit`


Reboot to load the updated partition table: `$ reboot`


Log in as root again, resize the filesystem: `$ resize2fs /dev/mmcblk0p2`


Now you should have the full capacity of your microSD card available.


for some reason, you may meet: resize2fs: Permission denied to resize filesystem, you can fix this by [Link:Manually Resize on Linux PC](http://elinux.org/RPi_Resize_Flash_Partitions#Manually_resizing_the_SD_card_on_Linux)  
 


======= above seems works well for Lubuntu/ubuntu =======


For most Embedded OS(raspbian/lubuntu/...), ref:  [Manually resizing the SD card on Raspberry Pi](http://elinux.org/RPi_Resize_Flash_Partitions#Manually_resizing_the_SD_card_on_Raspberry_Pi)


======== for calculating the Cylinder# ========



Make a new partition with the exact size you got from the block count. Since you cannot enter block size in fdisk, you need to figure out how many cylinders to request. Here is the formula:





| ```   (number of needed cylinders) = (number of blocks) / (block size)    (block size) = (unit size) / 1024    (unit size) = (number of heads) * (number of sectors/cylinder) * (number of bytes/sector)  ``` |
| --- |


Consider the following example, where a hard drive has been partitioned into four primary partitions of 1, 2, 4, and 8 cylinders.




| ``` disk /dev/sda: 16 heads, 63 sectors, 23361 cylinders Units = cylinders of 1008 * 512 bytes     Device Boot    Start       End    Blocks   Id  System /dev/sda1             1         2       976+  83  Linux /dev/sda2             3         5      1512   83  Linux /dev/sda3             6        10      2520   83  Linux /dev/sda4            11        19      4536   83  Linux  ``` |
| --- |


**fdisk** provides the configuration information I need in the head of the output. The unit size is 
**516096** ( 
**16** heads \* 
**63** sectors/cyl \* 
**512** bytes/sector ). The block size is 
**504** ( 
**516096 / 1024** ). The number of needed cylinders for the second partition is therefore 
**3** ( 
**1512** blocks 
**/ 504** ). The partition table shows that this is indeed the case: the first cylinder is 
**3**, the second 
**4**, and the last is 
**5**, for a total of three cylinders. The number of needed cylinders for the third partition is calculated similarly: 
**2520** blocks 
**/ 504 = 5**, which corresponds to blocks 
**6,7,8,9,10** . Notice that this calculation does not work for the first partition because the block count is wrong ( 
**976** instead of 
**1008** ). The plus sign indicates that not all the blocks are included in the fdisk value. When you try the calculation ( 
**976 / 504** ) you get 
**1.937**. Knowing that the number of cylinders must be an integer, you can simply round up. 
  
 


  



文章知识点与官方知识档案匹配，可进一步学习相关知识[CS入门技能树](https://edu.csdn.net/skill/gml/gml-1c31834f07b04bcc9c5dff5baaa6680c?utm_source=csdn_ai_skill_tree_blog)[Linux入门](https://edu.csdn.net/skill/gml/gml-1c31834f07b04bcc9c5dff5baaa6680c?utm_source=csdn_ai_skill_tree_blog)[初识Linux](https://edu.csdn.net/skill/gml/gml-1c31834f07b04bcc9c5dff5baaa6680c?utm_source=csdn_ai_skill_tree_blog)40632 人正在系统学习中
